Add `dotnet package search` documentation (#37747)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tools/dotnet-package-search.md

---
title: dotnet package search command
description: Searches a given source using the query string provided. If no sources are specified, all sources defined in the NuGet.Config file are used
author: Nigusu-Allehu
ms.date: 10/26/2023
---
# dotnet package search

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 8.0.2xx SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet package search` - Searches for a NuGet package.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet package search [search terms] [options]
    [--source <SOURCE>]
    [--exact-match]
    [--prerelease]
    [--interactive]
    [--take <TAKE>]

>     [--skip <SKIP>]

Reviewer: See [dotnet tool search](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-tool-search) for an example of how to format the Synopsis section. Also we generally try to put the options in alphabetical order.

dotnet package search -h|--help
```

## Description

The `dotnet package search` command searches for a NuGet package.

## Arguments

- **`search terms`**

  Specifies the search term to filter results. Use this argument to search for packages matching the provided query. Example: `dotnet package search json`.

> ## Options

Reviewer: We generally try to put the options in alphabetical order.

- **`--source <SOURCE>`**

  The package source to search. You can pass multiple --source options to search multiple package sources.

- **`--exact-match`**

  Return exact matches only as a search result.

- **`--prerelease`**

    Allow prerelease packages to be shown.

- **`--interactive`**

    Allows the command to stop and wait for user input or action (for example to complete authentication).

- **`--take`**

    The number of results to return. The default value is 20.

- **`--skip`**

    The number of results to skip, for pagination. The default value is 0.

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

> ## Examples

Reviewer: See [dotnet tool search](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-tool-search) for an example of how to format these examples and how to write the text that introduces each one. Also, note that the opening triple backtick for each output example can specify output as the type:
~~~
```output
~~~

    This option narrows the search to only include packages whose IDs exactly match the specified search term, effectively filtering out any partial matches. It provides a concise list of all available versions for the identified package. Causes `--take` and `--skip`
    options to be ignored. Utilize this option to display all available versions of a specified package.

- **`--format`**

    Format the output accordingly. The format options are either `table` or `json`. The default is `table`.

- **`--interactive`**

    Allows the command to stop and wait for user input or action (for example to complete authentication).

- **`--prerelease`**

    Allow prerelease packages to be shown.

- **`--skip`**

    The number of results to skip, for pagination. The default value is 0.

- **`--source <SOURCE>`**

    The package source to search. You can pass multiple --source options to search multiple package sources.

- **`--take`**

    The number of results to return. The default value is 20.

- **`--verbosity`**

    Display this amount of details in the output: `normal`, `minimal`,`detailed`. The default is`normal`.

[!INCLUDE [help](../../../includes/cli-help.md)]

## Examples

> - Search NuGet.org for packages using the search term "Newtonsoft.Json"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Search NuGet.org for packages that match the search term "Newtonsoft.Json," and render the output as a table with up to 20 packages:
```

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet package search Newtonsoft.Json --source https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json
    ```

>     output a list of 20 packages in the source matching the search term.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    ```output
        Source: https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json
        | Package ID                                  | Latest Version | Owners | Downloads       |
        |---------------------------------------------|----------------|--------|-----------------|
        | Newtonsoft.Json                             | 13.0.3         |        | 3,829,822,911   |
        |---------------------------------------------|----------------|--------|-----------------|
        | Newtonsoft.Json.Bson                        | 1.0.2          |        | 554,641,545     |
        |---------------------------------------------|----------------|--------|-----------------|
        | Newtonsoft.Json.Schema                      | 3.0.15         |        | 39,648,430      |
        |---------------------------------------------|----------------|--------|-----------------|
        | Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.NewtonsoftJson     | 7.0.12         |        | 317,067,823     |
        |---------------------------------------------|----------------|--------|-----------------|
        ...
    ```

> - Search NuGet.org for packages using the search term "Newtonsoft.Json" and render the output as a json.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Search NuGet.org for packages that match the search term "Newtonsoft.Json," and render the output as json.
```

    ```

    ```output
        {
        "version": 2,
        "problems": [],
        "searchResult": [
            {
            "sourceName": "https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json",
            "packages": [
                {
                "id": "Newtonsoft.Json",
                "latestVersion": "13.0.3",
                "totalDownloads": 4456137550,
                "owners": "dotnetfoundation, jamesnk, newtonsoft"
                },
                {
                "id": "Newtonsoft.Json.Bson",
                "latestVersion": "1.0.2",
                "totalDownloads": 655362732,
                "owners": "dotnetfoundation, jamesnk, newtonsoft"
                },
                {
                "id": "Newtonsoft.Json.Schema",
                "latestVersion": "3.0.15",
                "totalDownloads": 46062119,
                "owners": "jamesnk, newtonsoft"
                },
                {
                "id": "Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.NewtonsoftJson",
                "latestVersion": "8.0.3",
                "totalDownloads": 372202749,
                "owners": "aspnet, dotnetframework, Microsoft"
                },

>                 {
>                 "id": "Swashbuckle.AspNetCore.Newtonsoft",
>                 "latestVersion": "6.5.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 81345453,
>                 "owners": "domaindrivendev"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "GraphQL.NewtonsoftJson",
>                 "latestVersion": "7.8.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 11244179,
>                 "owners": "joemcbride"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "Refit.Newtonsoft.Json",
>                 "latestVersion": "7.0.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 12583471,
>                 "owners": "dotnetfoundation, reactiveui"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "Microsoft.Azure.Core.NewtonsoftJson",
>                 "latestVersion": "2.0.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 6593746,
>                 "owners": "azure-sdk, Microsoft"
>                 },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>                 {
>                 "id": "RestSharp.Serializers.NewtonsoftJson",
>                 "latestVersion": "110.2.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 13462500,
>                 "owners": "alexey_zimarev, Ubiquitous"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "App.Metrics.Formatters.Json",
>                 "latestVersion": "4.3.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 30385383,
>                 "owners": "al_hardy"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "NServiceBus.Newtonsoft.Json",
>                 "latestVersion": "3.0.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 9386309,
>                 "owners": "ParticularSoftware"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "RestSharp.Newtonsoft.Json",
>                 "latestVersion": "1.5.1",
>                 "totalDownloads": 4295800,
>                 "owners": "adamfisher"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "Microsoft.AspNetCore.SignalR.Protocols.NewtonsoftJson",
>                 "latestVersion": "8.0.3",
>                 "totalDownloads": 17044287,
>                 "owners": "aspnet, dotnetframework, Microsoft"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "MassTransit.Newtonsoft",
>                 "latestVersion": "8.1.3",
>                 "totalDownloads": 5185238,
>                 "owners": "phatboyg"
>                 },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>                 {
>                 "id": "GraphQL.Client.Serializer.Newtonsoft",
>                 "latestVersion": "6.0.2",
>                 "totalDownloads": 13538118,
>                 "owners": "rose-a"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "StackExchange.Redis.Extensions.Newtonsoft",
>                 "latestVersion": "10.2.0",
>                 "totalDownloads": 11013705,
>                 "owners": "imperugo"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "CloudNative.CloudEvents.NewtonsoftJson",
>                 "latestVersion": "2.7.1",
>                 "totalDownloads": 2156165,
>                 "owners": "CloudNative.CloudEvents"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "h5.Newtonsoft.Json",
>                 "latestVersion": "24.2.45748",
>                 "totalDownloads": 3855727,
>                 "owners": "Curiosity"
>                 },
>                 {
>                 "id": "Newtonsoft.Json.FSharp",
>                 "latestVersion": "3.2.2",
>                 "totalDownloads": 245301,
>                 "owners": "henrik feldt"
>                 },

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

                {
                "id": "Newtonsoft.Json.Encryption",
                "latestVersion": "2.2.0",
                "totalDownloads": 113101,
                "owners": "simoncropp"
                }
            ]
            }
        ]
        }
    ```

> - Search NuGet.org for packages using the search term "Newtonsoft.Json", show only two results and skip the first packages in the search result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Search NuGet.org for packages using the search term "Newtonsoft.Json," show only two results, and skip the first packages in the search result:
```

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet package search Newtonsoft.Json --source https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json --skip 1 --take 2
    ```

>     output a list of 2 packages after skipping 1 in the source matching the search term.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    ```output
        Source: https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json
        | Package ID                                  | Latest Version | Owners | Downloads       |
        |---------------------------------------------|----------------|--------|-----------------|
        | Newtonsoft.Json.Bson                        | 1.0.2          |        | 554,641,545     |
        | Newtonsoft.Json.Schema                      | 3.0.15         |        | 39,648,430      |
    ```

> - Search for packages that exactly match "Newtonsoft.Json" and list all available versions of it, ignoring any packages that contain "Newtonsoft.Json" as a part of their name or description but don't match it exactly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Search for packages that exactly match "Newtonsoft.Json" and list all available versions of it, ignoring any packages that contain "Newtonsoft.Json" as a part of their name or description but don't match it exactly:
```

    ```dotnetcli
    dotnet package search Newtonsoft.Json --source https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json --exact-match
    ```

>     output only an exact match.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
